GOVERNANCE.md, before:

# Governance

## License

The project will use [Apache 2.0 license](LICENSE) for code. To start, the
project will not be under any foundation, and does not have immediate plans to
do so. However, this may change in the future.

## Maintainership

List of maintainers can be found at [MAINTAINERS](MAINTAINERS).

Maintainership is driven by engineering contributions to the project, and a n-1
vote among current maintainers is required to make changes to the list of
maintainers. Should the quorum of necessary maintainers to merge changes be
unmet due to a maintainer’s inactivity for 3 months — without prior notice and
concurrence to the absence — the inactive maintainer will be removed from the
project and the decision documented.

At any one time, there should be at least 3 maintainers.

In general this is a developer driven project/community, be nice and respectful!
:)

## Technical Advisory Members

Due to the nature of the project aiming to establish a common knowledge graph
representation, the project will also have a set of “Technical Advisory
Members”.

Technical Advisory Members provide input into the project, to assist in
providing maintainers of the project with information that can help lead to more
informed decisions and thus, a more successful project. It is noted that
Technical Advisory Members’ main purpose is to inform, and the project
maintainers will shape its direction, work items and roadmap as they best
determine based on the advice provided.

Logistics

- Members will be part of a mailing list that will contain updates from the
  project
- Members will provide feedback directly to the mailing list or to project
  maintainers directly in the approved communication medium to ensure all
  parties are informed
- Membership has no term as long as there is relevance to the project
- Members, and their companies (by choice), will be listed on the project page
  and contributions acknowledged
- During significant milestones, or quarterly (whichever comes first), an
  optional meeting/demo will be hosted with invitations to members,

Responsibilities

- Provide feedback to the project on relevant use cases that should be
  considered in the project
- Provide feedback to the project especially in regards to technical direction
  and emerging technologies
- Provide recommendations for additional Technical Advisory Members

Technical Advisory Membership is provided by:

- Directly by invitation of project maintainers
- Approved recommendations by other members
- If members are seen to act disruptively, they may be given warnings of their
  disruptive actions, with up to two warnings. Disruptive behavior
- Upon the 3rd occurance of disruptive behavior, membership may be removed by
  unanimous vote by maintainers
- Members who are found to be threatening and malicious, e.g. active harassment
  will be removed immediately with vote by 2 maintainers

Commit message:

udpate and link code of conduct from governance
Signed-off-by: pxp928 <parth.psu@gmail.com>

GOVERNANCE.md, after:

# Governance

## License

The project will use [Apache 2.0 license](LICENSE) for code. To start, the
project will not be under any foundation, and does not have immediate plans to
do so. However, this may change in the future.

## Maintainership

List of maintainers can be found at [MAINTAINERS](MAINTAINERS).

Maintainership is driven by engineering contributions to the project, and a n-1
vote among current maintainers is required to make changes to the list of
maintainers. Should the quorum of necessary maintainers to merge changes be
unmet due to a maintainer’s inactivity for 3 months — without prior notice and
concurrence to the absence — the inactive maintainer will be removed from the
project and the decision documented.

At any one time, there should be at least 3 maintainers.

## Code of Conduct

Please refer to the [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT) for full details.

## Technical Advisory Members

Due to the nature of the project aiming to establish a common knowledge graph
representation, the project will also have a set of “Technical Advisory
Members”.

Technical Advisory Members provide input into the project, to assist in
providing maintainers of the project with information that can help lead to more
informed decisions and thus, a more successful project. It is noted that
Technical Advisory Members’ main purpose is to inform, and the project
maintainers will shape its direction, work items and roadmap as they best
determine based on the advice provided.

Logistics

- Members will be part of a mailing list that will contain updates from the
  project
- Members will provide feedback directly to the mailing list or to project
  maintainers directly in the approved communication medium to ensure all
  parties are informed
- Membership has no term as long as there is relevance to the project
- Members, and their companies (by choice), will be listed on the project page
  and contributions acknowledged
- During significant milestones, or quarterly (whichever comes first), an
  optional meeting/demo will be hosted with invitations to members,

Responsibilities

- Provide feedback to the project on relevant use cases that should be
  considered in the project
- Provide feedback to the project especially in regards to technical direction
  and emerging technologies
- Provide recommendations for additional Technical Advisory Members

Technical Advisory Membership is provided by:

- Directly by invitation of project maintainers
- Approved recommendations by other members
- If members are seen to act disruptively, they may be given warnings of their
  disruptive actions, with up to two warnings. Disruptive behavior
- Upon the 3rd occurance of disruptive behavior, membership may be removed by
  unanimous vote by maintainers
- Members who are found to be threatening and malicious, e.g. active harassment
  will be removed immediately with vote by 2 maintainers
