pkg/assembler/graphql/README.md, before:

assembler/graphql
=================

This directory contains the GraphQL definition for the server-side of the
["Refactoring the GUAC
Assembler"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZ3-ZcfnRDWgw9uZlPuLmIHS9pNMr3DO_AEbHsDXmN8/edit?usp=sharing)
project.

**Note**: This is still in experimental state and might change in the future!

Here is a description of the contents of this subtree:

- `./gqlgen.yml`: the configuration file for
  [`gqlgen`](https://github.com/99designs/gqlgen) to generate Go code from
  GraphQL schema specification
- `schema/: the GraphQL schema from which the codegen starts
- `server.go`: A testing serving where we can test the 2 backends defined in
  `assembler/backends`
- `graphql.go`: Mostly empty, contains load bearing comment to make sure Go code
  is generated by `go generate ./...` whenever schema changes
- `generated/`: Contains files generated by `go generate ./...` that represents
  the internals of the GraphQL interface, as defined by `gqlgen` (marshalling,
  unmarshalling, type checking, etc.)
- `model/nodes.go`: Contains Go structures that correspond to the GraphQL
  interface types. Use these in resolvers.
- `resolvers/`: contains resolvers for GraphQL queries. This should be editable
  whenever the schema changes
  - `resolvers/resolver.go`: root resolver definition, currently containing a
    backend field
  - `resolvers/schema.resolvers.go`: autogenerated, will add a function for each
    query in the schema (resolver). These resolvers must be implemented by all
    backends
- `README.md`: this file

Commit message:

Reword READMEs and add forgotten examples (#517)
* Reword the graphQL readmes

Signed-off-by: Mihai Maruseac <mihaimaruseac@google.com>

* Reword scorecards ingestions examples, forgotten on #513

Signed-off-by: Mihai Maruseac <mihaimaruseac@google.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Mihai Maruseac <mihaimaruseac@google.com>

pkg/assembler/graphql/README.md, after:

assembler/graphql
=================

This directory contains the GraphQL definition for the server-side of the
["Refactoring the GUAC
Assembler"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZ3-ZcfnRDWgw9uZlPuLmIHS9pNMr3DO_AEbHsDXmN8/edit?usp=sharing)
project.

**Note**: This is still in experimental state and might change in the future!

## GraphQL server configuration

- `./gqlgen.yml`: the configuration file for
  [`gqlgen`](https://github.com/99designs/gqlgen) to generate Go code from
  GraphQL schema specification
- `schema/`: the GraphQL schema from which the codegen starts

## GraphQL server code generation

- `graphql.go`: Mostly empty, contains load bearing comment to make sure Go code
  is generated by `go generate ./...` whenever schema changes
- `generated/`: Contains files generated by `go generate ./...` that represents
  the internals of the GraphQL interface, as defined by `gqlgen` (marshalling,
  unmarshalling, type checking, etc.)
- `resolvers/`: contains resolvers for GraphQL queries. These should be editable
  whenever the schema changes. Of particular interest is
  `resolvers/resolver.go`, the root resolver definition, which links to the
  backends via `Backend`.
- `model/nodes.go`: Contains Go structures that correspond to the GraphQL
  interface types. Use these in resolvers. **Not recommended to directly depend
  on these from the rest of GUAC**, use client GraphQL instead.

## GraphQL Examples

- `examples`: queries used to test the backend, from the playground
