pkg/assembler/clients/README.md, before:

assembler/clients
=================

This directory contains the GraphQL definition for the client-side of the
["Refactoring the GUAC
Assembler"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZ3-ZcfnRDWgw9uZlPuLmIHS9pNMr3DO_AEbHsDXmN8/edit?usp=sharing)
project.

**Note**: This is still in experimental state and might change in the future!

Code outside of `assembler/backends` and `assembler/graphql` should not use
structs defined in `assembler/graphql` directly as these should only be valid
server side, being regenerated when the GraphQL schema changes.

Instead, code should use the structs defined here (or in similar other clients
for utilities building on top of GUAC). These are generated based on the query
documents that we want to send to the server.

## GraphQL client configuration

- `genqlient.yaml`: the configuration file for
  [`genqlient`](https://github.com/Khan/genqlient) to generate Go code from
  GraphQL schema specification and the operation queries
- `operations/`: the GraphQL queries that the client (e.g., GUAC) sends to the
  server (e.g., GUAC database backend, via GraphQL)

## GraphQL client code generation

- `graphql.go`: Mostly empty, contains load bearing comment to make sure Go code
  is generated by `go generate ./...` whenever schema/operations change
- `generated/`: Contains code generated via `go generate ./...` to marshal a
  GraphQL query from Go structures and send it to the server. When the response
  is returned, the same code transforms the response into Go structures. This is
  based on what is included in `operations/` and the GraphQL schema as defined
  at the time of last generation.

Commit message:

Change assembler/ingestion plumbing to use client gql model (#530)
* Change assembler/ingestion plumbing to use client gql model

Signed-off-by: Brandon Lum <lumjjb@gmail.com>

* cmd/guacone assembler plumbing

Signed-off-by: Brandon Lum <lumjjb@gmail.com>

* change import alias from generated to model

Signed-off-by: Brandon Lum <lumjjb@gmail.com>

* update documentation to show guacone talks to gql

Signed-off-by: Brandon Lum <lumjjb@gmail.com>

* update inputs to new generated model

Signed-off-by: Brandon Lum <lumjjb@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Brandon Lum <lumjjb@gmail.com>

pkg/assembler/clients/README.md, after:

assembler/clients
=================

This directory contains the GraphQL definition for the client-side of the
["Refactoring the GUAC
Assembler"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZ3-ZcfnRDWgw9uZlPuLmIHS9pNMr3DO_AEbHsDXmN8/edit?usp=sharing)
project.

**Note**: This is still in experimental state and might change in the future!

Code outside of `assembler/backends` and `assembler/graphql` should not use
structs defined in `assembler/graphql` directly as these should only be valid
server side, being regenerated when the GraphQL schema changes.

Instead, code should use the structs defined here (or in similar other clients
for utilities building on top of GUAC). These are generated based on the query
documents that we want to send to the server.

## GraphQL client configuration

- `genqlient.yaml`: the configuration file for
  [`genqlient`](https://github.com/Khan/genqlient) to generate Go code from
  GraphQL schema specification and the operation queries
- `operations/`: the GraphQL queries that the client (e.g., GUAC) sends to the
  server (e.g., GUAC database backend, via GraphQL)
- `helpers/`: the GraphQL helper functions to return an assembler function given
  a graphql client.

## GraphQL client code generation

- `graphql.go`: Mostly empty, contains load bearing comment to make sure Go code
  is generated by `go generate ./...` whenever schema/operations change
- `generated/`: Contains code generated via `go generate ./...` to marshal a
  GraphQL query from Go structures and send it to the server. When the response
  is returned, the same code transforms the response into Go structures. This is
  based on what is included in `operations/` and the GraphQL schema as defined
  at the time of last generation.
